Added ⚡️ content to `Private Key Management` > `Backups` (#559)
BitcoinDesign/Guide: guide/private-key-management/cloud-backup.md

   layout = "full-width"
%}

# Cloud backup

> By using an automatic cloud backup for the private key the user is NOT required to manually backup anything when setting up a new [bitcoin wallet]({{ '/guide/glossary/wallet/#bitcoin-wallet' | relative_url }}). This is sometimes also called *seedless*, as the user is never exposed to the traditional *seed*, or [recovery phrase]({{ '/guide/glossary/#recovery-phrase' | relative_url }}) that is used to initiate a wallet.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
By using an cloud backup for the private key the user is NOT required to manually backup anything when setting up a new [bitcoin wallet]({{ '/guide/glossary/wallet/#bitcoin-wallet' | relative_url }}). This is sometimes also called *seedless*, as the user is never exposed to the traditional *seed*, or [recovery phrase]({{ '/guide/glossary/#recovery-phrase' | relative_url }}) that is used to initiate a wallet.
```

If we are changing this page title, like the cloud backups page in onboarding, we should be dropping the 'automatic' term for reasons outlined when adding LN content to that section.

Reviewer 2: I'm against dropping 'Automatic' as it's a defining feature of this scheme.

Reviewer 2: I'm against dropping 'Automatic', it's a defining feature of this scheme.

Reviewer 3: I like the idea of a more generic on-device, and cloud backup that can be used for various types of Bitcoin application data and style procedures (manual , automatic).

> This scheme can be a good fit for wallets meant for storing smaller amounts of bitcoin. This includes wallets for novices who would find manually backing up a recovery phrase during onboarding confusing, possibly leading to unsafe backups. It could also be a starting point for a progressive security model that lets customers upgrade when they start accumulating more funds. Wallets using automatic cloud backups also work well for what experienced users might call *hot* or *spending* wallets where convenience is more important than maximum security.

Reviewer: Could add some details here about a Lightning enabled daily spending wallet and how cloud backup can be handy for that.

Reviewer 2: Agree, an automatic cloud backup scheme is likely the best fit for many Lightning wallets as it enables continuous backup of channel states.

Reviewer 2: Agree, automatic cloud backups are likely the best fit for many Lightning wallets as it enables continuous backups of the channel states.

Author: Done. I rearranged the order of the paragraph to flow a little better with the addition of the LN content.

The automatic cloud backup scheme gives users reasonable security against theft, while providing low risk for self-inflicted losses.

> If a wallet supports Lightning, it may already have cloud backup [enabled for the channel state]({{'/guide/onboarding/backing-up-a-wallet/cloud-backup/' | relative_url}}); therefore, it would not take much additional work to store the private key in the cloud as well.

Reviewer 4: "it would not take much work" - is there any chance we can explain this a bit? What kind of work process is involved in this?

Author: That's an assumption I am making (perhaps wrong). What I'm trying to express is that if the developer has already built a way for the wallet app to communicate with a cloud provider for frequent channel state updates, then it seems to me like it would not require much additional coding to also store a backup of the key as well.

Maybe something like this:

> If you have implemented cloud backups for Lightning channel state in your app, you could also use this same conection with the cloud provider to store a backup of the user's private key.

Author: Done

### How it works

> First the application generates a wallet with a keypair. Then, the key is encrypted and backed up to a location convenient and safe for the user, yet hard for a malicious third-party to gain access to.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
First the wallet application generates the users private keys. Then, the keys are encrypted and backed up to a location convenient and safe for the user, yet hard for a malicious third-party to gain access to.
```

Wondering if we should put these steps in a list. As well as add a third step around if the user needs to use the backup they do xyz.

Author: I'm not sold on this. As far as I understand, all of the "private keys" do not need to be backed up because they can all be deterministically generated from the parent private key. Though I do think we have a slight confusing discrepancy when we say "keypair" vs. "key" so I think I'll just make that "private key".

I don't think the list is necessary, it's a simple tiny paragraph and we explain how the users restores a few lines down.

   layout = "full-width"
%}

# Cloud backup

By using an automatic cloud backup for the private key the user is NOT required to manually backup anything when setting up a new [bitcoin wallet]({{ '/guide/glossary/wallet/#bitcoin-wallet' | relative_url }}). This is sometimes also called *seedless*, as the user is never exposed to the traditional *seed*, or [recovery phrase]({{ '/guide/glossary/#recovery-phrase' | relative_url }}) that is used to initiate a wallet.

This scheme can be a good fit for wallets meant for storing smaller amounts of bitcoin, such as a Lightning wallet that is used for daily spending. A daily spending wallet might also be referred to as a [*hot wallet*]({{'/guide/glossary/wallet/#hot--cold-wallet' | relative_url}}), where convenience is more important than maximum security.

> These types of wallets may be good for novices who would find manually backing up a recovery phrase during onboarding confusing, possibly leading to unsafe backups. It could also be a starting point for a progressive security model that lets customers upgrade when they start accumulating more funds.

Author: Done

The automatic cloud backup scheme gives users reasonable security against theft, while providing low risk for self-inflicted losses.

> If a wallet supports Lightning, it may already have cloud backup [enabled for the channel state]({{'/guide/onboarding/backing-up-a-wallet/cloud-backup/' | relative_url}}). If you have implemented cloud backups for Lightning channel state in your app, you could also use this same connection with the cloud provider to store a backup of the user's private key.

Author: @johnsBeharry I added something to this effect, but I could not commit this suggestion directly due to falling out of sync with more recent commits.

### Best practice

#### When to use
- When risk of self-inflicted loss is higher than loss from theft
- For beginners, or products with progressive security
- For wallets with frequent transactions of smaller amounts

#### When not to use
- When storing high values
- When risk of loss from theft is higher than self-inflicted loss
- When complete self-sovereignty is important to the target audience

#### Variations
- Storage location (keychain, iCloud, Google Drive, One Password etc.)
- Additional user authentication (biometrics, pin)

#### Products that use this scheme
- [Photon SDK](https://photonsdk.org) - for use by other wallets, in development
- [Casa](https://keys.casa)
- [Pine](https://pine.pm ) - Lightning, beta

{% include tip/open.html label="Encrypted Cloud Backups" %}

> You can provide an extra layer of security for the user's private key by encrypting it before sending it to the cloud. One option would be for the user to choose an encryption passphrase. Another would be to have a third-party hold the encryption key so that neither the cloud provider nor the encryption key holder would have access to all the information to use the private key. See [this article](https://blog.keys.casa/casa-keymaster-security-mobile-key-overview/) for an example.

Reviewer 5: Encryption is already mentioned further up the page under "How it works". Was a little surprised to see it repeated at the bottom as if it hadn't been mentioned before. Encryption should probably always happen, it's just a matter of how the key is generated and managed.

Author: @GBKS That's a good point. The reason I included the paragraph is that there is another line on the page under "Cons" that reads "User needs to trust their OS and cloud storage provider".

When I read this, it sounds to me like a plaintext backup where the user is hoping that their cloud provider doesn't swipe their private key. That's why I decided to include a snippet discussing that the cloud backup can be encrypted in a way to where the cloud provider does not need to be trusted.

I just pushed a new commit where I tweaked the way this is worded and tried to group the tip box closer to the first mention of "encrypted".

> - [Casa](https://keys.casa)

Reviewer: I bumped the size of the subheadings up 1 in the `Best practice` section in my external signers PR, looks a little more legible imo.

Author: Done

- [Pine](https://pine.pm ) - Lightning, beta

{% include tip/open.html label="Encrypted Cloud Backups" %}

> You can provide an extra layer of security for the user's private key by encrypting it before sending it to the cloud. One option would be for the user to choose an encryption passphrase. Another would be to have a third-party hold the encryption key, so that neither the cloud provider nor the holder of the encryption key would have access to all the information to use the private key. See [this article](https://blog.keys.casa/casa-keymaster-security-mobile-key-overview/) for an example.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
You can provide an extra layer of security for the user's private key by encrypting it before sending it to the cloud. One option would be for the user to choose an encryption passphrase. Another would be to have a third-party hold the encryption key so that neither the cloud provider nor the encryption key holder would have access to all the information to use the private key. See [this article](https://blog.keys.casa/casa-keymaster-security-mobile-key-overview/) for an example.
```
